--- 
title: Where's the Code?
layout: post
---

My last post attracted a comment regarding availability of the source code, so I thought I'd better write a post explaining the state of play at the moment.

The major goal of this ilp project is to replace another system currently used at South Devon College. This previous system was also designed and developed by us and has run very well for three years. The time had come, however, to address some of its shortcomings and this new project is the product of that work. 

We are going to roll the new system into production use at the college at the beginning of the next academic year (in September). Demonstrations and testing we have doine with college staff show far have received positive feedback, and we are on track, but we have a lot of work to do to get things ready before then. This means that all our resources are currently focussed on acheiving this initial goal (along with a migration to Moodle 2).

Once we have rolled out the system at South Devon we will be releasing the code but bear in mind that is unlikely that the project, at this point, will simply be a 'drop-in' application for another institution. We've abstracted things as much as we can but I expect that an initial aim of the open source release will be to work on getting the system to actually function at institutions other than South Devon College. Barriers to this may include:

* The system assumes the presence of a properly-configured Shibboleth Service Provider to provide authentication. No other authentication mechanism is currently supported (except for a testing system which doesn't require a password), although I can't see why it would be difficult to change this.

* Student data can only be obtained through an EBS MIS system. We have designed this connection to be able to connect to other MIS systems by writing a single library file to convert between the MIS and the ilp but I've not tested this on any other MIS. There is a testing library, however, which always returns no data.

* Even if you do have an EBS system, it's likely that I've made assumptions about the way data is represented which are specific to South Devon College. In fact, there's a couple of places where I know this is the case. 

Not that I want to put anyone off! I'm excited to start trying to port the system to other institutions but I can't spend any time on this until I've filled my obligations to the College for release in September.

So the code is coming. If anyone out there is interested in getting involved _please_ get in touch with me at "khughes@southdevon.ac.uk":mailto:khughes@southdevon.ac.uk . We've got a few interested parties already and the earlier you get involved the more influence you can have over design decisions.

In other news, lots more work has been done on the system and I do apologise for not documenting it here yet. I'll try to post again soon with some more details of how things are going :)
